**Part 1: Initiating the VM Cluster Creation**

1.  Open the navigation menu in the OCI web console.
2.  In the upper-right corner, select the desired **region** for your deployment.
3.  Navigate to **Oracle Database > Exadata Cloud@Customer**. This opens the Exadata VM Clusters page.
4.  Click the **Create Cluster** button to begin.

**Part 2: Basic Configuration**

5.  On the Create VM Cluster page, select the **compartment** where the VM Cluster will reside. (This can be different from the compartment containing the infrastructure).
6.  Provide a **display name** for the VM Cluster. It does not need to be unique, as Oracle will assign a unique OCID.
7.  Select the name of the **Exadata Cloud@Customer Infrastructure** where the cluster will be deployed.
8.  Select a **validated VM Cluster Network** to associate with this VM Cluster.
9.  Choose the **Grid Infrastructure (GI) version**. This determines the newest Oracle Database release that can be supported (you cannot run a database version newer than the GI version).

**Part 3: Configuring Compute and Storage Resources**

10. In the **Configure VM Cluster** section:
    *   Specify the number of **OCPU cores** to allocate to each Virtual Machine (VM).
    *   Specify the amount of **memory** for each VM (minimum is **30 GB per VM**).
    *   Specify the **local file system storage** size for each VM (minimum is **60 GB per VM**).
11. Click the **Change DB Servers** button for VM placement.
12. On the **Change DB Server** screen:
    *   All available servers are initially selected.
    *   You must select a **minimum of two database servers**.
    *   Select the desired servers and click **Save Changes**.
13. In the **Configure Exadata Storage** section, specify the amount of **usable Exadata storage** for the cluster (minimum is **2 TB**).

**Part 4: Security, Licensing, and Additional Options**

14. In the **Add SSH Key** section, provide your public SSH key using one of three methods:
    *   **Generate a key pair** for me.
    *   **Upload** an existing public key file.
    *   **Paste** the public key value.
15. Choose the **license type** for the VM cluster: **Bring Your Own License (BYOL)** or **License Included**.
16. In the **Diagnostics** section, you can opt-in to allow Oracle to collect error and health metrics to improve the product and support.
17. Under **Advanced Options**, you can set the **time zone** for the cluster and apply **tags** for resource organization.

**Part 5: Finalizing Creation and Verification**

18. Click the **Create VM Cluster** button to complete the process.
19. You are taken to the **VM Cluster Details** page. The initial state will be a redwood-colored icon with the status **"Provisioning."**
20. Once provisioning is complete, the state icon turns **green** and the status changes to **"Available."**
21. To verify the resources, click on **Virtual Machines** under the **Resources** section on the left rail. This displays a list of all provisioned VMs, their resource allocations, and their client IP addresses.
