
### **1. Lesson Overview**
*   In this lesson, we will discuss:
    *   Schema management.
    *   Storage management.
    *   Optimizer statistics.
    *   Database job configurations in Database Management.

### **2. Routine Administration & Job Automation**
*   Database Management service can be used to perform:
    *   Routine database administration tasks.
    *   Schema updates.
    *   Storage changes on a database or databases.
*   Job automation abilities can be used to automate routine tasks by defining database jobs that can run against a set of databases on a schedule.
*   SQL scripts can be packaged into templates to run in bulk across databases in a group to automate scheduled database maintenance tasks.
*   You can also create templates to address needs across compartments within a group.
*   You can apply jobs as templates to run your own SQL scripts against a single database or a group.

### **3. Schema Management: Users**
*   In the **users section**, you can view the users created in the Oracle Database.
*   You can identify the:
    *   User account status.
    *   Expiration date.
    *   Profile.
*   In the **user details section**, you can view:
    *   System, object, and consumer group privileges.
    *   Roles.
    *   Proxy users.

### **4. Required Privileges for Schema Management**
*   To perform schema management tasks, you must have these privileges already assigned:
    *   `DBA_USERS`
    *   `DBA_ROLE_PRIVS`
    *   `DBA_TAB_PRIVS`
    *   `DBA_SYS_PRIVS`
    *   `DBA_RSRC_CONSUMER_GROUP_PRIVS`
    *   `PROXY_USERS`
    *   `DBA_CONTAINER_DATA`

### **5. Storage Management: Tablespace Monitoring**
*   Tablespace monitoring tasks allow for basic administration and visibility into tablespace usage and allocation.
*   The tasks include:
    *   Create, modify, and drop tablespaces.
*   It supports both:
    *   OMF (Oracle Managed Files) and ASM (Automatic Storage Management).
    *   Big files.
*   You can also set the default tablespace here.

### **6. Optimizer Statistics Monitoring**
*   It is important to monitor and understand if:
    *   There are any stale statistics that may be impacting database performance.
    *   There are any missing statistics.
*   Database Management now supports the monitoring of optimizer statistics to solve these use cases.

### **7. Optimizer Statistics Advisor**
*   Oracle Database has an advisor called the **Optimizer Statistics Advisor**.
*   Its purpose is to help improve the quality of statistics in the database.
*   This diagnostic software:
    *   Analyzes information in the data dictionary.
    *   Assesses the quality of statistics.
    *   Discovers how statistics are being gathered.
*   It reports on:
    *   Poor statistics.
    *   Missing statistics.
*   It generates recommendations to resolve these problems.
*   Using Database Management, you can:
    *   Monitor and analyze Optimizer Statistics Advisor tasks.
    *   Implement Optimizer Statistics Advisor recommendations.

### **8. Database Scheduler Jobs**
*   Database scheduler jobs can be configured in the DBM console for:
    *   A single database.
    *   A group of databases.
*   This feature can streamline application support or database administration work for an entire fleet of databases.
*   The jobs can be configured to run:
    *   One time immediately.
    *   At a future date.
    *   On a scheduled, repeating interval.
*   The results of the database jobs can be:
    *   Viewed within the console.
    *   Stored in OCI Object Storage.
*   **Supported input for the jobs includes:**
    *   Queries.
    *   DML (Data Manipulation Language).
    *   DDL (Data Definition Language).
    *   PL/SQL.
