### **Introduction**
*   Welcome to Oracle University's lesson on Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service Data Models.
*   I'm your host Sara.
*   Let's get started.

### **Lesson Overview**
*   In this lesson, we will cover the NoSQL table anatomy and take a look at the supported data types along with the service connectivity and resource types.
*   We will look at the permissions for NoSQL tables, rows, and indexes and the permissions for NoSQL cloud driver requests.
*   We will cover seamless SQL interoperability with fixed schema along with rich secondary indexing.
*   Let's touch upon how the drivers connect to the NoSQL tables and the various performances of those operations.

### **Table Anatomy: Data Component**
*   Each table has two key components.
*   The first is the data component which consists of the table definition.
*   We support many different data types, including integer, string, binary, long, double, JSON, records, and many others.
*   And as you can see in the simple example here, each column can be defined to support a specific data type.
*   So the example that we have here is more of a fixed scheme type of approach.
*   In this case, the primary key column is an integer. That's on the far left. The next two columns are strings. And the last column is a JSON data type.
*   So we can intermix the different data types in the same row.

#### **Primary and Shard Keys**
*   The primary key is an index, and it's used to access the data.
*   For a more complex table definition, shard keys can also be defined.
*   The purpose of shard keys is to distribute data across shards for efficiency and to store records with the same shard key in the same shard for a locality of reference and quicker access.
*   Records that share the same shard key will be located very close to one another.

### **Table Anatomy: Capacity Component**
*   The second component of the tables is what we call capacity.
*   The table capacity indicates the resource limits that are allocated to this particular table for its operations.
*   Capacities can be divided up into two types. We have storage and throughput storage capacity is expressed in terms of gigabytes.
*   This is the maximum amount of storage allocated to this particular table.
*   Throughput captures the reads and writes that are performed on this table.
*   Write at capacity is expressed in what we call write units.
*   And read capacity is expressed in what we call read units.

### **Supported Data Types**
*   Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service supports many common data types.
*   Here is a complete list of the different data types that are supported by Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service.
*   I'll leave the slide up for a few seconds.

### **Service Connectivity & Credentials**
*   When it comes to connecting to the cloud service, you are going to need a series of connection credentials.
*   On the left-hand side, we list the different credentials that you need to have.
*   You'll need two Oracle Cloud Identifiers or OCI IDs, a tenancy ID, and a user ID.
*   Down there at the bottom of the slide, we give a generic structure of what an OCI ID looks like.
*   There is an API sign-in key, a signing fingerprint.
*   And, optionally, for additional security, you can have a signing key pass phrase.

### **Resource Types**
*   Within the Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service, we have different types of resources.
*   We have three primary resources that you will have access to. Those are tables, rows, and indexes.
*   And when you think about that in the sense of a relational database, most people can very easily relate to that terminology of tables, rows, and indexes.

### **Permissions**

#### **Table Resource Permissions**
*   The next set of slides covers some of the various permissions that we have to cover the different resources.
*   As mentioned before, we have resources on tables, rows, and indexes.
*   So we have different sets of permissions that can be assigned to each one of those different types of resources.
*   This chart up here shows some of those permissions that are available for a table resource.
*   For example, there's the ability to inspect, read, alter, create, move.
*   Then what we have toward the right-hand side of the chart are the different kinds of REST APIs you can call and what permissions those would need.

#### **Row Resource Permissions**
*   This next table here structured the same way as the previous table shows the permissions for rows where we are showing you the REST APIs and then the various cloud driver APIs that need those various permissions.
*   And, hopefully, the permissions would make sense to most people.
*   For rows, you have to be able to read the rows, insert the rows, and delete the rows.
*   Inserting the rows also covers things like updates.
*   We also have what is called an UPSERT operation, which is a combination of update and inset.

#### **Index Resource Permissions**
*   And, finally, here, we have the third resource, that is, indexes, presented the same way as the prior two slides except this one is focused on the index resources.

#### **Driver Request Permissions**
*   This slide shows the permissions for the NoSQL driver requests.
*   It shows the requests, the permissions, and the operation ID for each one of those.
*   Hopefully, this gives you an idea of the different permissions that can be allocated and controlled and what level you can do that on.

### **SQL Interoperability: Schema-less vs. Fixed Schema**
*   Schema-less and fixed schema can interoperate with one another.
*   Let's take a look at the schema-less definition on the left.
*   Here, we have a primary key and a JSON object, which we've named content.
*   If we were to take that exact same structure and convert that to a fixed schema model, then we basically take that JSON object and convert it to a record.
*   There's the record definition on the right.
*   We ask the same question to both types of data models. That is, we want to find all visitors to the website in November who are males between the ages of 24 and 30 years old.
*   The bottom shows you the syntax from a SQL standpoint on how you query that based upon whether it's schema-less or fixed schema.
*   And as you can see, the schema is 100% identical between those two different approaches.

### **Rich Secondary Indexing**
*   We offer extremely rich secondary indexing.
*   We use path expressions to access JSON data.
*   It's very easy to use.
*   We can index scalars, non-scalars, composites, JSON fields within a JSON structure.
*   You can index just about anything that you have within your database record.
*   This is very, very powerful and something that our competitors don't offer.

### **Conclusion**
*   This concludes our lesson on Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service Data Models.
*   Thanks for hanging with me.
*   I hope you learned something useful.
