
### **Introduction**
*   Welcome to Oracle University's lesson on Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service throughput.
*   I'm your host Sara.
*   Let's get started.

### **Lesson Overview**
*   In this lesson, we will cover throughput provisioning, development flexibility, resource usage and capacity, as well as database operations and throughput consumption.

### **Throughput Provisioning: Read and Write Units**
*   To discuss throughput provisioning, we need to talk about read units and write units and what those really mean.
*   We have a definition of each of them up on the slide.

#### **Consistency Models: Eventual vs. Absolute**
*   And what I want to talk about briefly here is the notion of eventual consistency and absolute consistency.
*   Eventual consistency is a consistency model used in distributed computing to achieve high availability, which informally guarantees that, if no new updates are made to a given data item, then, eventually, all accesses to that item will return the last updated value.
*   If you are in an environment where updates are occurring frequently, then, quite possibly, with eventual consistency, you can return what is often commonly referred to as stale data.
*   So the basis of our read unit is eventual consistency.
*   However, if you want to use absolute consistency and we have that option available, then, basically, the charge for each I/O is two read units as opposed to one read unit.
*   With absolute consistency in this model, you're going to be guaranteed that you will always read the most recently updated value.

### **Development Flexibility: Key Features**
*   Here are a couple features that I want to cover. That is time to live and our access via either API or SQL.

#### **Time to Live (TTL)**
*   Time to live functionality is basically auto aging of data.
*   We have it at the table level and at the record level if you have a particular record that you would like to have aged out differently than what you set default for a given table.

#### **Access Methods: API and SQL**
*   Secondly is our set of APIs and SQL.
*   Within the APIs, there's a mechanism to perform calls within SQL.
*   We have a very rich set of SQL. Such that, we can access JSON.
*   We have complex filtering expressions with support for conjunctions and disjunctions, as well as SQL interoperability between schema-less and fixed schema.

### **Resource Usage and Capacity**
*   In the Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service, you pay for the throughput and storage you provision on an hourly basis.
*   The throughput must be provisioned to ensure that sufficient resources are available for you at all times.

### **Database Operations and Throughput Consumption**
*   The cost of all database operations is, essentially, normalized and expressed in terms of read or write units.
*   It abstracts the system resources, such as CPU, IOPS, and memory, that are required to perform the database operations supported by the Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service.
*   The service does not charge you for the underlying system resources. It charges you for the read and write units.

#### **Unit Consumption by Operation Type**
*   Here is a more detailed description of read units and write units.
*   The different operations, write, read, update, and delete, may use different units.
*   For example, if you perform a write, it will primarily consist of write units.
*   What if you perform a read? You guessed it. It will primarily consist of read units.
*   Now if you perform an update or delete, those operations will consist of a combination of read and write units.

### **Conclusion**
*   This concludes our lesson on Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service throughput.
*   Thanks for hanging with me.
*   I hope you learned something useful.
